[RF-DOCS] Action View Helpers Documentation [ci-skip] (#51432)
rails/rails: guides/source/action_view_helpers.md

```ruby
url_for @profile
# => /profiles/1

url_for [ @hotel, @booking, page: 2, line: 3 ]
# => /hotels/1/bookings/1?line=3&page=2

url_for @post # given a composite primary key [:blog_id, :id]
# => /posts/1_2
```

Sanitization
----------------------------------------------

A set of methods for scrubbing text of undesired HTML elements. The helpers are
particularly useful for helping to ensure that only safe and valid HTML/CSS is
rendered. It can also be useful to prevent XSS attacks by escaping or removing
potentially malicious content from user input before rendering it in your views.

This functionality is powered internally by the
[rails-html-sanitizer](https://github.com/rails/rails-html-sanitizer) gem.

### sanitize

The `sanitize` method will HTML encode all tags and strip all attributes that
aren't specifically allowed.

```ruby
sanitize @article.body
```

If either the `:attributes` or `:tags` options are passed, only the mentioned
attributes and tags are allowed and nothing else.

```ruby
sanitize @article.body, tags: %w(table tr td), attributes: %w(id class style)
```

To change defaults for multiple uses, for example, adding table tags to the
default:

```ruby

> class Application < Rails::Application

Author: good catch, done ✅ Thank you!

attachments.

```ruby
video_tag("trailer")
# => <video src="/videos/trailer"></video>

video_tag(["trailer.ogg", "trailer.flv"])
# => <video><source src="/videos/trailer.ogg" /><source src="/videos/trailer.flv" /></video>

video_tag("trailer", controls: true)
# => <video controls="controls" src="/videos/trailer"></video>
```

INFO: Internally, `video_tag` uses [`video_path` from the
AssetUrlHelpers](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/AssetUrlHelper.html#method-i-video_path)
to build the video path.

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/AssetTagHelper.html#method-i-video_tag)
for more information.

JavaScript
----------------------------------------------

A set of methods for working with JavaScript in your views.

### escape_javascript

Escapes carriage returns and single and double quotes for JavaScript segments.
You would use this method to take a string of text and make sure that it doesn’t
contain any invalid characters when the browser tries to parse it.

For example, if you have a partial with a greeting that contains double quotes,
you can escape the greeting to use in a JavaScript alert.

> **app/views/users/greeting.html.rb**

Reviewer: More of a note for us to think about, I wanted to hear your thoughts: (maybe it's something we should also settle on a default)

In some cases like here in this guide, we're using a bold "paragraph" before the code block, which looks like this:

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

<img width="459" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-08 at 17 12 48" src="https://github.com/rails/rails/assets/26328/3fddb978-089d-4426-a340-042a219e511c">

</p>
</details>

In some other cases, we have file paths that are inside the code block, as the first commented out line, or even multiple times to indicate where they are located: (this one is from the AR Basics guide)

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

<img width="442" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-08 at 17 14 03" src="https://github.com/rails/rails/assets/26328/8e4b3a9c-b0c5-43b7-9384-d1c153d9375f">

</p>
</details> 

The former may distract the reader a bit, so I personally kind of like the commented version within the code block. Here's how this one in particular would look like:

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

<img width="437" alt="Screenshot 2024-04-08 at 17 15 23" src="https://github.com/rails/rails/assets/26328/dca1beff-ac5e-4435-be21-f604d8c547b7">

</p>
</details> 

The drawback is that it gets copied over with the "copy" button, but so does the output of code we have in some other examples, etc., so I think that's fine.

Anyway, just wanted to hear your thoughts on this one (also cc'ing @bhumi1102 @p8)

Author: This is a good observation, and I think it's great that we're working towards consistency! My vote goes towards the commented version within the code block. I think it's less imposing and does not try to take the attention away from the code.

Author: > here's one bit of food for thought about the file paths in code samples that might be worth taking a look as well (maybe we can settle on a definitive way to do it going forward), but otherwise this will be ready to go.

For now, I'll change this to the commented version and we can update it across the guides once we've heard everyone's thoughts and decided on a way forward, if that's okay?

Reviewer 2: > The drawback is that it gets copied over with the "copy" button, but so does the output of code we have in some other examples, etc., so I think that's fine.

The "copy" button script currently ignores some code, like the `$` and the output for commandline examples. 
An example is the ruby version code:
https://edgeguides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#installing-ruby

https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/4c258caba245fbd311b0e8f157a9d8a5fc1c54b7/guides/rails_guides/markdown/renderer.rb#L85-L94

We could do the same for Ruby comments matching file paths.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think that would be nice. Would you like to work on it?

Reviewer 2: Sure. I can have a look.

options to control the behavior of the `<script>` tag.

```ruby
javascript_tag("alert('All is good')", type: "application/javascript")
```

```html
<script type="application/javascript">
//<![CDATA[
alert('All is good')
//]]>
</script>
```

Instead of passing the content as an argument, you can also use a block.

```html+erb
<%= javascript_tag type: "application/javascript" do %>
  alert("Welcome to my app!")
<% end %>
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/JavaScriptHelper.html#method-i-javascript_tag)
for more information.

Alternative Tags
----------------------------------------------

A set of methods to generate HTML tags programmatically.

### tag

Generates a standalone HTML tag with the given `name` and `options`.

Every tag can be built with:

```ruby
tag.some_tag_name(optional content, options)
```

where tag name can be e.g. `br`, `div`, `section`, `article`, or any tag really.

For example, here are some common uses:

```ruby
tag.h1 "All titles fit to print"
# => <h1>All titles fit to print</h1>

tag.div "Hello, world!"
# => <div>Hello, world!</div>
```

#### Options

> 

Author: ✅

> You can use symboled key options to add attributes to the generated tag.

Reviewer: Maybe we don't need to be explicit about symbols, as it seems to work with both symbol & string keys for attrs:

```ruby
> helper.tag :zomg, foo: 'bar', 'lol' => 'itworks'
=> "<zomg foo=\"bar\" lol=\"itworks\" />"
```

(feel free to tweak)

```suggestion
You can pass options to add attributes to the generated tag.
```

```ruby
tag.section class: %w( kitties puppies )
# => <section class="kitties puppies"></section>
```

> In addition, HTML `data-*` attributes can be passed to the `tag` helper as a key value pair, where the key is `data` and the value is a hash containing sub-attributes. The sub-attributes are then converted to `data-*` attributes that are dasherized in order to work well with JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, HTML `data-*` attributes can be passed to the `tag` helper using the `data` option, with a hash containing key-value pairs of sub-attributes. The sub-attributes are then converted to `data-*` attributes that are dasherized in order to work well with JavaScript.
```

Note: Make sure to format the column length on this last block to match the rest of the guide.

```ruby
tag.div data: { user_id: 123 }
# => <div data-user-id="123"></div>
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-tag)
for more information.

### token_list

> Returns a string of tokens built from the `args` provided. This method is also
> aliased as `class_names`.

Reviewer: Since the argument name is not as relevant in this case, when compared to a few others like `excerpt` that have more arguments with more meaningful naming, maybe we can just use "arguments" more generically?

```suggestion
Returns a string of tokens built from the arguments provided. This method is
also aliased as `class_names`.
```

```ruby
token_list("cats", "dogs")
# => "cats dogs"

token_list(nil, false, 123, "", "foo", { bar: true })
# => "123 foo bar"

mobile, alignment = true, "center"
token_list("flex items-#{alignment}", "flex-col": mobile)
# => "flex items-center flex-col"
class_names("flex items-#{alignment}", "flex-col": mobile) # using the alias
# => "flex items-center flex-col"
```

Capture Blocks
----------------------------------------------

A set of methods to let you extract generated markup which can be used in other
parts of a template or layout file.

> It provides a method to capture blocks into variables through `capture` and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides a method to capture blocks into variables through `capture`, and a
```

it in a `cache` block.

```erb
<% cache do %>
  <%= render "application/footer" %>
<% end %>
```

You could also cache based on model instances, for example, you can cache each
article on a page by passing the `article` object to the `cache` method. This
would cache each article separately.

```erb
<% @articles.each do |article| %>
  <% cache article do %>
    <%= render article %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

When your application receives its first request to this page, Rails will write
a new cache entry with a unique key. A key looks something like this:

```irb
views/articles/index:bea67108094918eeba32cd4a6f786301/articles/1
```

See [`Fragment Caching`](caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching) and the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/CacheHelper.html#method-i-cache)
for more information.

Miscellaneous
----------------------------------------------

### atom_feed

Atom Feeds are XML-based file formats used to syndicate content and can be used
by users in feed readers to browse content or by search engines to help discover
additional information about your site.

> This helper makes building an Atom feed easy is mostly used in Builder templates
> for creating XML. Here's a full usage example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helper makes building an Atom feed easy, and is mostly used in Builder
templates for creating XML. Here's a full usage example:
```

with user-generated content or dynamic content that includes style attributes.

The `sanitize_css` method below will remove the styles that are not allowed.

```ruby
sanitize_css("background-color: red; color: white; font-size: 16px;")
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/SanitizeHelper.html#method-i-sanitize_css)
for more information.

#### strip_links

Strips all link tags from text leaving just the link text.

```ruby
strip_links('<a href="https://rubyonrails.org">Ruby on Rails</a>')
# => Ruby on Rails

strip_links('emails to <a href="mailto:me@email.com">me@email.com</a>.')
# => emails to me@email.com.

strip_links('Blog: <a href="http://myblog.com/">Visit</a>.')
# => Blog: Visit.
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/SanitizeHelper.html#method-i-strip_links)
for more information.

#### strip_tags

Strips all HTML tags from the HTML, including comments.

```ruby
strip_tags("Strip <i>these</i> tags!")
# => Strip these tags!

strip_tags("<b>Bold</b> no more! <a href='more.html'>See more</a>")
# => Bold no more! See more
```

> NOTE: The output may still contain unescaped `<`, `>`, `&` characters and
> confuse browsers.
> 

Reviewer 2: I think this can be removed.
After [this PR](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/28061) all special characters will be escaped. The PR also removed it from the [documentation.](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/28061/files#diff-db13dbc376db15388ddbcb4c6c220b4339462c05e360e809c983ff60da3c862c)
```suggestion
```

Author: ✅ + updated the description to read `Strips all HTML tags from the HTML, including comments and special characters.` and added a malformed example.

result does not coincide with the start/end of the text.

```ruby
excerpt('This is a very beautiful morning', 'very', separator: ' ', radius: 1)
# => ...a very beautiful...

excerpt('This is also an example', 'an', radius: 8, omission: '<chop> ')
#=> <chop> is also an example
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TextHelper.html#method-i-excerpt)
for more information.

#### pluralize

Returns the singular or plural form of a word based on the value of a number.

```ruby
pluralize(1, 'person') # => 1 person
pluralize(2, 'person') # => 2 people
pluralize(3, 'person', plural: 'users') # => 3 users
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TextHelper.html#method-i-pluralize)
for more information.

#### truncate

Truncates a given `text` to a given `length`. If the text is truncated, an omission
marker will be appended to the result for a total length not exceeding `length`.

```ruby
truncate("Once upon a time in a world far far away")
# => "Once upon a time in a world..."

truncate("Once upon a time in a world far far away", length: 17)
# => "Once upon a ti..."

> truncate("Once upon a time in a world far far away", length: 17, separator: ' ')
> # => "Once upon a..."

Reviewer 2: Maybe using an example with another separator would make this example more clear?
```suggestion
truncate("one-two-three-four", length: 17, separator: '-')
# => "one-two-three..."
```

Author: I love this, it's more clear thank you!

truncate("And they found that many people were sleeping better.", length: 25, omission: '... (continued)')
# => "And they f... (continued)"

truncate("<p>Once upon a time in a world far far away</p>", escape: false)
# => "<p>Once upon a time in a wo..."
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TextHelper.html#method-i-truncate)
for more information.

#### word_wrap

Wraps the text into lines no longer than `line_width` width.

```ruby
word_wrap('Once upon a time', line_width: 8)
# => "Once\nupon a\ntime"
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TextHelper.html#method-i-word_wrap)
for more information.

### TagHelper

Provides methods to generate HTML tags programmatically.

> 
> #### content_tag
> 
> Generates an HTML block tag of the specified type to surround the content. You
> can add HTML attributes by passing an `attributes` hash to options.
> 
> ```ruby
> content_tag(:div, "Hello world!", class: ["strong", { highlight: current_user.admin? }])
> # => <div class="strong highlight">Hello world!</div>
>  ```
> 
> See the [API
> Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-content_tag)
> for more information.

Reviewer 2: `content_tag` is [legacy syntax](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-content_tag) so I think we can delete this section.
```suggestion
```

Author: Thank you, good catch!

#### tag

Generates a standalone HTML tag with the given `name` and `options`.

```ruby
tag.h1 'All titles fit to print'
# => <h1>All titles fit to print</h1>

tag.section class: %w( kitties puppies )
# => <section class="kitties puppies"></section>
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-tag)
for more information.

### UrlHelper

Provides methods to make links and get URLs that depend on the routing
subsystem.

#### button_to

Generates a form that submits to the passed URL. The form has a submit button
with the value of the `name`.

```html+erb
<%= button_to "Sign in", sign_in_path %>
```

would output the following HTML:

```html
<form method="post" action="/sessions" class="button_to">
  <input type="submit" value="Sign in" />
</form>
```

See the [API
Documentation](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/UrlHelper.html#method-i-button_to)
for more information.

#### current_page?

> Returns true if the current request URI matches the given `options`.

Reviewer 2: As the examples above use URL instead URI (and it's for the UrlHelper), I think we should URL here as well:
```suggestion
Returns true if the current request URL matches the given `options`.
```
